README.md, before:

# Project Karen &middot; [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lnxusr1/karen)](https://github.com/lnxusr1/karen/blob/master/LICENSE) ![Python Versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/yt2mp3.svg) ![Read the Docs](https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/project-karen) ![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/lnxusr1/karen)

This project is dedicated to building a "Synthetic Human" which is called Karen (for now) for which we have assigned the female gender pronoun of "She". She has visual face recognition ([opencv/opencv](https://github.com/opencv/opencv)), speech transcription ([mozilla/deepspeech](https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech)), and speech synthesis ([festival](http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/)).  Karen is written in Python and is targeted primarily at the single board computer (SBC) platforms like the [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/).

Visit our main site: [https://projectkaren.ai/](https://projectkaren.ai/)

## Karen's Architecture

Karen's architecture is divided into components that each require separate installation.  This is so that you need only install the portions required for a specific device to enhance compatibility with devices like the Raspberry Pi Zero W (which does not support the listener device).  The device components are as follows:

__Python Module Overview__

| Python Module  | Type   | Description                                                      |
| :------------- | :----- | :--------------------------------------------------------------- |
| karen          | Base   | Global start() method, handlers and shared features.             |
| karen_brain    | Engine | Main CPU where device containers will send/receive their I/O.    |
| karen_device   | Engine | Standalone service for plugins and I/O to the brain.             |
| karen_listener | Plugin | Audio capture and Speech-to-Text translation for AUDIO_INPUT.    |
| karen_watcher  | Plugin | Video capture and object detection/recognition for IMAGE_INPUT.  |
| karen_speaker  | Plugin | Converts Text-to-Speech and plays output audio through speakers. |
| karen_panel    | Plugin | Visual display for use with touchscreen operations.              |

__Python Module to Package Mapping__

| Python Module  | to     | PIP Package           | Notes                               |
| :------------- | ------ | :-------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| karen          | __>>__ | karen                 | *Shared libraries and methods only. |
| karen_brain    | __>>__ | karen-brain           | *Includes shared karen modules.     |
| karen_device   | __>>__ | karen-device          | *Includes shared karen modules.     |
| karen_listener | __>>__ | karen-plugin-listener |                                     |
| karen_watcher  | __>>__ | karen-plugin-watcher  |                                     |
| karen_speaker  | __>>__ | karen-plugin-speaker  |                                     |
| karen_panel    | __>>__ | karen-plugin-panel    |                                     |

In version 0.7.0 and later you are required to install the brain, device, and any desired plugins explicitly.

## Installation

Karen is available through pip, but to use the built-in devices there are a few extra libraries you may require.  Please visit the [Basic Install](https://docs.projectkaren.ai/en/latest/installation.basic/) page for more details.  If you're impatient and don't want to read the details then the commands below will perform a __full installation__ with all plugins and dependencies.

```
sudo apt-get install \
  libfann2 \
  python3-fann2 \
  python3-pyaudio \
  python3-pyqt5 \
  festival \
  festvox-us-slt-hts  \
  libportaudio2 \
  libasound2-dev \
  libatlas-base-dev \
  cmake
```

```
pip3 install scikit-build # includes skbuild for compiling opencv
pip3 install karen-brain karen-device karen-listener karen-watcher karen-speaker
```
__NOTE:__ The installation of OpenCV is automatically triggered when you install karen-plugin-watcher and this may take a while on the Raspberry Pi OS as it has to recompile some of the libraries.  Patience is required here as the spinner icon appeared to get stuck several times in our tests... so just let it run until it completes.  If it encounters a problem then it'll print out the error for additional troubleshooting.

Once installed you can create a new instance of Karen using a [configuration file](https://docs.projectkaren.ai/en/latest/config.overview/) with the following:

```
import karen_listener
model_type = "pbmm"                         # use "tflite" for Raspberry Pi
karen_listener.download_models(model_type)  # Downloads models for deepspeech

import karen
karen.start()
```

__NOTE:__ Use ```model_type="tflite"``` if running on the Raspberry Pi.  If you have a webcam or video recording device you can also try ```karen.start("video")``` to optionally start the watcher device.

Read more about startup options including starting the Watcher in [Starting Up](https://docs.projectkaren.ai/en/latest/karen/).

If everything is working properly you should be able to point your device to the web control panel running on the __Brain__ engine to test it out.  The default URL is:

__[http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/)__

-----

## Help &amp; Support
Help and additional details is available at [https://projectkaren.ai](https://projectkaren.ai)

Commit message:

Docs update and changes to run Karen as a module from cli

README.md, after:

# Project Karen &middot; [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lnxusr1/karen)](https://github.com/lnxusr1/karen/blob/master/LICENSE) ![Python Versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/yt2mp3.svg) ![Read the Docs](https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/project-karen) ![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/lnxusr1/karen)

This project is dedicated to building a "Synthetic Human" which is called Karen (for now) for which we have assigned the female gender pronoun of "She". She has visual face recognition ([opencv/opencv](https://github.com/opencv/opencv)), speech transcription ([mozilla/deepspeech](https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech)), and speech synthesis ([festival](http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/)).  Karen is written in Python and is targeted primarily at the single board computer (SBC) platforms like the [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/).

Visit our main site: [https://projectkaren.ai/](https://projectkaren.ai/)

## Karen's Architecture

Karen's architecture is divided into components that each require separate installation.  This is so that you need only install the portions required for a specific device to enhance compatibility with devices like the Raspberry Pi Zero W (which does not support the listener device).  The device components are as follows:

__Python Module Overview__

| Python Module  | Type   | Description                                                      |
| :------------- | :----- | :--------------------------------------------------------------- |
| karen          | Base   | Global start() method, handlers and shared features.             |
| karen_brain    | Engine | Main CPU where device containers will send/receive their I/O.    |
| karen_device   | Engine | Standalone service for plugins and I/O to the brain.             |
| karen_listener | Plugin | Audio capture and Speech-to-Text translation for AUDIO_INPUT.    |
| karen_watcher  | Plugin | Video capture and object detection/recognition for IMAGE_INPUT.  |
| karen_speaker  | Plugin | Converts Text-to-Speech and plays output audio through speakers. |
| karen_panel    | Plugin | Visual display for use with touchscreen operations.              |

__Python Module to Package Mapping__

| Python Module  | to     | PIP Package           | Notes                               |
| :------------- | ------ | :-------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| karen          | __>>__ | karen                 | *Shared libraries and methods only. |
| karen_brain    | __>>__ | karen-brain           | *Includes shared karen modules.     |
| karen_device   | __>>__ | karen-device          | *Includes shared karen modules.     |
| karen_listener | __>>__ | karen-plugin-listener |                                     |
| karen_watcher  | __>>__ | karen-plugin-watcher  |                                     |
| karen_speaker  | __>>__ | karen-plugin-speaker  |                                     |
| karen_panel    | __>>__ | karen-plugin-panel    |                                     |

In version 0.7.0 and later you are required to install the brain, device, and any desired plugins explicitly.

## Installation

Karen is available through pip, but to use the built-in devices there are a few extra libraries you may require.  Please visit the [Basic Install](https://docs.projectkaren.ai/en/latest/installation.basic/) page for more details.  If you're impatient and don't want to read the details then the commands below will perform a __full installation__ with all plugins and dependencies.

```
sudo apt-get install \
  libfann2 \
  python3-fann2 \
  python3-pyaudio \
  python3-pyqt5 \
  festival \
  festvox-us-slt-hts  \
  libportaudio2 \
  libasound2-dev \
  libatlas-base-dev \
  cmake
```

```
pip3 install scikit-build # includes skbuild for compiling opencv
pip3 install karen-brain karen-device karen-listener karen-watcher karen-speaker
```
__NOTE:__ The installation of OpenCV is automatically triggered when you install karen-plugin-watcher and this may take a while on the Raspberry Pi OS as it has to recompile some of the libraries.  Patience is required here as the spinner icon appeared to get stuck several times in our tests... so just let it run until it completes.  If it encounters a problem then it'll print out the error for additional troubleshooting.

Once installed you can create a new instance of Karen using a [configuration file](https://docs.projectkaren.ai/en/latest/config.overview/) with the following:

__As a Module:__
```
python3 -m karen.run --download-models --model-type pbmm
python3 -m karen.run
```
Use ```--model-type tflite``` on the raspberry pi.  Use the ```--video``` switch to start the watcher.

__As Python code:__
```
import karen_listener
model_type = "pbmm"                         # use "tflite" for Raspberry Pi
karen_listener.download_models(model_type)  # Downloads models for deepspeech

import karen
karen.start()
```

__NOTE:__ Use ```model_type="tflite"``` if running on the Raspberry Pi.  If you have a webcam or video recording device you can also try ```karen.start("video")``` to optionally start the watcher device.

Read more about startup options including starting the Watcher in [Starting Up](https://docs.projectkaren.ai/en/latest/karen/).

## Web Control Panel

If everything is working properly you should be able to point your device to the web control panel running on the __Brain__ engine to test it out.  The default URL is:

__[http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/)__

-----

## Help &amp; Support
Help and additional details is available at [https://projectkaren.ai](https://projectkaren.ai)
