docs/index.md, before:

# Project Karen &middot; [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lnxusr1/karen)](https://github.com/lnxusr1/karen/blob/master/LICENSE) ![Python Versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/yt2mp3.svg) ![Read the Docs](https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/project-karen) ![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/lnxusr1/karen)

This project is dedicated to building a "Synthetic Human" which is called Karen (for now) for which we have assigned the female gender pronoun of "She". She has visual face recognition ([opencv/opencv](https://github.com/opencv/opencv)), speech transcription ([mozilla/deepspeech](https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech)), and speech synthesis ([festival](http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/)).  Karen is written in Python and is targeted primarily at the single board computer (SBC) platforms like the [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/).

Visit our main site: [https://projectkaren.ai/](https://projectkaren.ai/)

## Quick Install

Karen is available through pip, but to use the built-in devices there are a few extra libraries you may require.  Please visit the [Basic Install](installation.basic.md) page for more details.  To get started try:

```
sudo apt-get install \
  festival \
  festvox-us-slt-hts  \
  libfann2 \
  python3-fann2 \
  libportaudio2 \
  libasound2-dev
```

```
pip3 install karen
```

Once installed you can create a new instance of Karen using a [configuration file](config.overview.md) with the following:

```
import karen
karen.download_models(model_type="pbmm")
karen.start()
```

__NOTE:__ Use ```model_type="tflite"``` if running on the Raspberry Pi.

If everything is working properly you should be able to point your device to the web control panel to test it out.  The default URL is:

__
[http://localhost:8080/webgui](http://localhost:8080/webgui)
__

![Control Panel](https://projectkaren.ai/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/karen_model_0_5_4_control_panel.png)

## Demo running on Raspberry Pi


[![Project Karen](https://projectkaren.ai/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/karen_model_0_1_0_demo3.jpg)](https://projectkaren.ai/static/karen_model_0_1.mp4)

Commit message:

v0.6.0 Initial Commit
Added basic watcher functions and requirements.  Training,
Capturing/Sending data to the brain, and basic data handlers.

docs/index.md, after:

# Project Karen &middot; [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lnxusr1/karen)](https://github.com/lnxusr1/karen/blob/master/LICENSE) ![Python Versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/yt2mp3.svg) ![Read the Docs](https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/project-karen) ![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/lnxusr1/karen)

This project is dedicated to building a "Synthetic Human" which is called Karen (for now) for which we have assigned the female gender pronoun of "She". She has visual face recognition ([opencv/opencv](https://github.com/opencv/opencv)), speech transcription ([mozilla/deepspeech](https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech)), and speech synthesis ([festival](http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/)).  Karen is written in Python and is targeted primarily at the single board computer (SBC) platforms like the [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/).

Visit our main site: [https://projectkaren.ai/](https://projectkaren.ai/)

## Quick Install

Karen is available through pip, but to use the built-in devices there are a few extra libraries you may require.  Please visit the [Basic Install](installation.basic.md) page for more details.  To get started try:

```
sudo apt-get install \
  festival \
  festvox-us-slt-hts  \
  libfann2 \
  python3-fann2 \
  libportaudio2 \
  libasound2-dev
```

```
pip3 install karen
```

Once installed you can create a new instance of Karen using a [configuration file](config.overview.md) with the following:

```
import karen
karen.download_models(model_type="pbmm")
karen.start()
```

__NOTE:__ Use ```model_type="tflite"``` if running on the Raspberry Pi.  If you have a webcam or video recording device you can also try ```karen.start("video")``` to optionally start the watcher device.

Read more about startup options including starting the Watcher in [Starting Up](karen.md).

If everything is working properly you should be able to point your device to the web control panel to test it out.  The default URL is:

__
[http://localhost:8080/webgui](http://localhost:8080/webgui)
__

![Control Panel](https://projectkaren.ai/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/karen_model_0_5_4_control_panel.png)

## Demo running on Raspberry Pi


[![Project Karen](https://projectkaren.ai/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/karen_model_0_1_0_demo3.jpg)](https://projectkaren.ai/static/karen_model_0_1.mp4)
