docs/installation.raspberrypi.md, before:

# Raspberry Pi

## Video

Make sure you enable the camera in the Pi if that's what you're using.  It's simple to turn on.  Use the "raspi-config" command, or if you're on the command line then try out:

```
sudo -s raspi-config
```

## Audio (Optional)

While this is 100% optiona, I tend to like the pulseaudio setup since it gives a bit more control (in my opinion) over the default setup.  The installation is pretty simple.  here are the packages and they are totally optional.

```
sudo apt-get install libatlas-base-dev \
  pulseaudio \
  pamix \
  pavucontrol \
  libpulse-dev
```

Next, you shouldn't need it, but just in case I'm listing it here for your information in the event you need to modprobe the sound driver for the onboard output on the Pi 4.

```
sudo modprobe snd_bcm2835 
```

We may need also to add a reference for a library in our .bashrc file to meet some of the dependencies of the software that is required.  This should run under the user that will be executing the Karen program.  (You can also set this at runtime by prefixing it in the command call if you're not using a standard logged in user to start it up.)

```
echo "" >> ~/.bashrc
echo "export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/arm-linux-gnueabihf/libatomic.so.1" >> ~/.bashrc
```

Also, if you followed the general steps then you should have pulse audio installed now.  You will want to make sure that it is started before continuing.

```
pulseaudio --start
```

Commit message:

Bug fixes and minor enhancements
Added PyQt5 details to docs
Added FANN troubleshooting to docs
Added download_models function to karen
Fixed self._thread problem in container template

docs/installation.raspberrypi.md, after:

# Raspberry Pi

Make sure you start with the [basic installation](installation.basic.md) before coming to this page..

## Troubleshooting: "Cannot find FANN libs"

If you encounter an error trying to install the brain component on the Raspberry Pi then you may need to add a symlink to the library.  This is due to a bug/miss in the "find_fann" function within the Python FANN2 library as it doesn't look for the ARM architecture out-of-the-box.  The fix is simple, but very frustrating if you don't know about this limitation.  To fix it run the following:

```
ln -s /usr/lib/arm-linux-gnueabihf/libdoublefann.so.2 /usr/local/bin/libdoublefann.so
```

What's going on?  As mentioned above, the find_fann logic searches for a limited set of architectures under "/usr/lib" and then defaults to several standard locations looking for libdoublefann.so.  To "fix" this we just symlink the arm's location "arm-linux-gnueabihf" to a location that find_fann includes in its search.  Once the symlink is in place just rerun the failed install of karen-brain.


## Video

Make sure you enable the camera in the Pi if that's what you're using.  It's simple to turn on.  Use the "raspi-config" command, or if you're on the command line then try out:

```
sudo -s raspi-config
```

## Audio (Optional)

While this is 100% optiona, I tend to like the pulseaudio setup since it gives a bit more control (in my opinion) over the default setup.  The installation is pretty simple.  here are the packages and they are totally optional.

```
sudo apt-get install libatlas-base-dev \
  pulseaudio \
  pamix \
  pavucontrol \
  libpulse-dev
```

Next, you shouldn't need it, but just in case I'm listing it here for your information in the event you need to modprobe the sound driver for the onboard output on the Pi 4.

```
sudo modprobe snd_bcm2835 
```

We may need also to add a reference for a library in our .bashrc file to meet some of the dependencies of the software that is required.  This should run under the user that will be executing the Karen program.  (You can also set this at runtime by prefixing it in the command call if you're not using a standard logged in user to start it up.)

```
echo "" >> ~/.bashrc
echo "export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/arm-linux-gnueabihf/libatomic.so.1" >> ~/.bashrc
```

Also, if you followed the general steps then you should have pulse audio installed now.  You will want to make sure that it is started before continuing.

```
pulseaudio --start
```
